whats is the true nature of power- motivation, will, excess? does power relates to the greatness?

Here I examine a work written to explore the topic of greatness to understand broad philosophical interpretations especially Nietzsches. i will skip the story-like explanations and focus on what i think is important.

"An Analysis of the Overlooked Value of Greatness" by Brandon Beesley.
Beesley, Brandon. “An Analysis of the Overlooked Value of Greatness”. Dianoia: The Undergraduate Philosophy Journal of Boston College, no. X, Apr. 2023, pp. 57-69, doi:10.6017/dupjbc.v0iX.16465.

megalopsychos and Übermensch( nietzche ) . two opposing-seem ideas, but are they?  "a  dillemma  requiring  further  attention"

megalopsychos: " prioritizes  a  link  to  virtue  and  morality... achieved by a life of virtuous acts conducive to happiness and honor."

  Übermensch: " understands power to be the measure of greatness ... the power to choose one outcome or another.... the  conquering of obstacles  and  expansion of strength, status, wealth, and influence... "

these 2 areas are open for exploration but for the writer, the idea of greatness is different:
"expressions of power that are consistent with morality and exhibit virtue are the only actions that mirror the characteristic of greatness."
the writer argues power is a necessary condition for greatness, although it is not sufficient, a second characteristic, in cooperation with power must also be responsible for greatness. and there is the other characteristic; morality.

Ethics in greatness:
in the feminism perspective, the writer argues the ability to do things is not enough to make someone great, giving examples of how a cruel can person be. 
"... displays  of  greatness– defined  as  acts  that  empower  and  influence change  through  ethics  of care–are  valuable  in  the  social  change  they  effect."

Then, the writer writes about the importance of principles of virtue in greatness. and without it, the act isnt enough great. 
ex: athelete competing for a national swimming competition and winning a gold medal. 
it would be considered achiving greatness, unless the swimmer was cheating. and this case is described as: "incompatible with the virtues of justice and truthfulness... fails to be great" which shows a necessity of morality.

Conclusion:
One  must possess the desire to act and with it, the ability(power required to choose) to act  upon  their decision displays a virtue, and the virtue is displayed only when there is an ability to put virtue into action which makes it real.

: wanting to do something is not enough to become great but one must able to act. 
: and this is the power is which is the ability to choose and act
: virtue becomes real through actions, without actions virtue is just an idea.
: only power allows virtue to exist in the world
: and the virtue determines whether the action is morally good or not.
: so greatness comes from both power and virtue.

I tried to understand the view of the conclusion.. the two ideas of greatness(megalopsychos and Übermensch) are still open to anyone willing.
