There are formats that formulates thoughts which makes the thought process easier to understand. Then what are the ways of logical understanding, and how is it formulated? 
What are some of the tools or diagrams that are learnt to memorise or to understand better? And are there any limitations of these tools?

I will try to understand my first question which is about simple principles of "logical understanding". Then, I can look at the tools to memorise and understand better and also limitations of them.

what is the difference between thinking & understanding?
Erickson, Bette LaSere, and Glenn R. Erickson. “Knowing, Understanding, and Other Forms of Learning.” To Improve the Academy: A Journal of Educational Development, vol. 1, 1982, pp. 161–183.
This paper examines concepts in the perspectives as a student & teacher relationship.


What does it mean to understand? There are 2 common wrong ideas:
- "being well informed -remembering important facts, events, ideas, theories "(memorisation) or
- "understanding involves the ability to explain, to marshal evidence, to detect the unwarranted conclusion"(Formation)
but it is actually
"understanding is used synonymously with remembering, relating, comparing, applying, and a whole host of other intellectual processes"

"there are some important differences among abilities -differences which call for different teaching methods and study procedures". 
this paper looks at four different learning outcomes that are pursued in collage courses:
- ask good questions,
- write learning objectives,
- choose teaching methods,
- create tests for each type of learning goal.


--- Memorisation:
"being able to recall basic information is often necessary for further study in a course or in a field. " "...Such information sometimes
includes names, definitions, terminology, or other facts--fundamental laws, theoretical propositions, the characteristics of a period, points of view expressed in their reading.".

"Memorization is NOT about its complexity. Rather to remember it and be able to recall it."

"Meaningful material is learned faster and remembered longer
than meaningless material."Because meaning "lies in the relationship between the subject matter and the learner." 

Practice facilitates memorization and retention - its one of the ways to get familiar with concepts; with questions and concerns and drawing examples from the experiences
"although the practice looks different for each type"

Memorising the test and the key concepts can be not useful when it comes to long term skills of analytical thought process. 
For example, if a test that requires to complex analytical skills for a literature book is rather memorised, then it isn't an analysis or a solution or a conclusion.
"we conclude that students are demonstrating anything other than memorization. "

As a result, a student can be recognised with memorisation concepts, but "unable to name the concept it exemplifies";
"interpretation or an analysis, student cannot identify the theoretical perspective taken by the interpreter or analyst"

--- Formation: the ability to recognize the relationship between specific instances and their broader generalization"

most popular objectives for formation: 

"Given samples of essays written by literary critics, be able to identify
the approach to literary analysis which the critics have taken.

Be able to recognize examples of cross- sectional, longitudinal, time-
sequential, and experimental designs.

Be able to recognize examples of assimilation, accommodation, con-
crete operational thinking, formal operational thinking, and conserva-
tion.

Whenever you encounter a new insect, you should be able to identify
the type of feeding system the insect possesses.

If I show you a painting we've not studied, you should be able to
recognize the artistic movement to which it probably belongs. "

(a)one should have to acknowledge "to recognize
examples which they've never seen before." And there are different examples which requires to recognise new examples and illustrations, not just memorisation. 

(b)"it's critical that students have complete and accurate
information about what "defines" the concept-- examples:"Highlight the critical properties, distinguishing characteristics, or key ideas ofthe concept, principle, generalization, or theory. "

(a) to pose a
series of specific instances; and (b) to ask students the appropriate
questions about them.

which is guided by practice..ex:  Which concept does this exemplify? Which principle or law or generalization is illustrated in this situation?
Which theory or approach does this interpretation reflect? Which theme is being dramatized here?
- process of formation:
"Start with relatively simple and clear examples and gradually
introduce more complex and subtle examples." in other words, "The first task is to
illustrate the properties, characteristics, features which define the
concept or generalization or theory, " however, complex questions must not be avoided as students won't be able to recognize from only simple ones.

sum of teaching: process of solving wide range of examples and illustrations with range of situations on a concept.. that emphasises on multiple practice.

" (a) presenting a specific instance or situation-
one that students have not seen before; and (b) asking students which
concept it exemplifies, principle it illustrates, theory it reflects, theme
it dramatizes."

---Application:
-esentially, "the ability to use concepts, principles, generaliza-
tions, theories and the like to explain or analyze or otherwise cope
with specific situations or problems."; "important to stress that the ability
to apply involves coping with a variety of new problems and situations."

" the challenge is that(a) involves presenting a specific problem or
situation 
(b) and asking students to use what they•ve learned in some
way-to explain the situation. to solve the problem, to predict an
outcome, to make a recommendation. to formulate a policy. "

sum of it: "implying which concepts, principles, theories, or generalizations students should use
in order to complete the task" 

---Objectives for application:
"(1) that they'll be given specific problems or situations; and 
(2) that they'll be asked to use what they've learned to do something with those
problems or situations."
simply testing with questions which have not been discuss in somewhere.

---Teaching of  Application: (i am mostly interested about this and how i can make this process more efficiently possible and what are the limitations)

there is a lot research under "..the transfer of learning."
bad news: "In other words, we can teach students
how to apply our subject matter in one situation; but give them a new
situation, and they act as if they've never encountered such a problem", there is lots of research why speculation of why application is difficult, however there are suggestions:
(1)"Demonstrate how to apply course materials to specific problems
or situations." -process of understanding-- solving it, or explaining it. highlight the key decisions and explain why you did what you did
(2) "Provide opportunities for students to practice application" 
note: "demonstrating how to apply is not the same as students practicing how to apply."

instruction of sampled the range of contexts in which students were expected to
apply is more effective than solving similar set of questions examples where one isnt familiar with different context,

obstacle: "students fail to recognize
similarities between new problems and those they•ve already solved
successfully. "
examples to get familiar with the applications and to be prepared for different contexts, here are examples questions:
"What are the "givens.. in this situation? What are you
asked to do? How is this situation similar to (or different from) other
problems you•ve solved? What concepts and principles did you use in
solving those problems? Would they work in this problem or situation?"

- "students do need to learn to cope with problems or
situations on their own."; "Plan instruction systematically so that students receive lots of
· guidance on early attempts to apply and less and less guidance on
subsequent attempts."

"Provide more practice than you ever dreamed might be required.", which takes time

"instructors who fall prey to such temptations are likely
to be disappointed when they test their students' application skills" as well as students.

---Testing of Application: (its as important as the teaching: tests show students performance)

(a)present a problem(b) ask some concept or
principle or theory to solve the problem, analyse the situation, predict
the outcome, or whatever the appropriate task which one had never seen before.

"application usually state explic-
itly or strongly imply which concepts, principles, theoretical con-
structs, or ideas students are to use in dealing with the situation or
problem"

---Complex Problems: its resembles much of application, but there are distinctions.

ability to use course material in real life situations or problems.
(a) present a problem (b)asking students to do something with it--to perform an analysis, to
fmd a solution, to offer an explanation, to reconunend a policy, to
reach a decision
"However, for purposes of instruction and evaluation, it's
helpful to make some distinctions"

1.
" In applications, problems and situations are usually fairly structured
and direct about what is to be done. But in complex problems. Its clear which features of the
problem or situation deserve attention and which concepts and prin-
ciples are to be used."
However when solving a complex problem is more complicated:
-"More information is presented, and some of the information may be
irrelevant and conflicting"
-"Key ideas and relationships are less obvious
and may be embedded in a morass of detail"
The task to be accom-
plished should be clear, but the questions or issues to be considered
along the way may not be so obvious", meaning it usually demands some restructuring.

2.
"Complex Problem Solving task does not tell students
which concepts, principles, theories, or ideas they should use in coping
with the situation; to sort through what one has
studied and to select that which seems relevant and useful."

"usually require students to
use-or at least consider-more than a single concept or principle or
construct or idea."
3.
"there is usually more than one approach to a Complex
Problem Solving task and a range of acceptable answers"

:"which is an acceptable
answer is to be judged, to decide what kind of evidence or support is
required, to gather the evidence, and to defend one's answer in light
of the criteria established and the evidence available." 

---Writing Objectives For Complex Problem Solving:

it is difficult to write clear,concise objectives for complex problems.
"the objectives should alert students to
the complexity of the problems or situations which will be posed and
should indicate the kinds of decisions which students will be asked to
make. "

"the objectives shouldn't be so lengthy or
complicated that students get lost in the process of reading them"

!!Teaching for Complex Problem Solving( one of my main focuses)

!!"how people solve complex problems and  how they
learn to accomplish such feats remains pretty much a mystery."

!!" Research indicates that successful problem solvers approach and think
through such problems in very different ways"

!!!!"we are not very
taken with some of the current teaching methods and instructional
materials which appear to prescribe problem solving steps and se-
quences" (but i exactly want to know this)

!!"Indeed, there's doubt about whether Complex Problem Solving
abilities can be ''taught" in the same sense that Memorization, Concept
Formation and Application can be taught"

!!"Gagne (1980) concludes skills(solving problems and ext) develop naturally through experience--by solving many different problems over time and in different situations."

1."Provide opportunities for students to wrestle with Complex Problem Solving tasks and situations."

2."Encourage students to write things down as they read the problems. "
"Successful problem solvers report that they jot down key ideas
and information, note relationships, write themselves questions, draw
diagrams and pictures.Such activities make sense as strategies for
pulling out key ideas and restructuring situations. "

"Often students merely read and reread problems, get lost in their complexities and
give up when solutions don't emerge.

3."Stress that Complex Problem Solving often involves a lot of trial
and error."

"If students expect that they
should be able to produce a solution or an analysis after their first try,
they're likely to become discouraged and give up the effort prema-
turely."

4."Be available to consult with students as they wrestle with complex
problems and situations."
"In far more fundamental and profound ways, these
problems may challenge and disrupt students' views of knowledge,
their ways of organizing experience and making sense of the world,
their value systems, their relationships with parents, professors, and
peers."

--- Testing For Complex Problem Solving.

creating problems- " resemble •'real
life"situations in their complexity, their ambiguity and their structure,
and often professors can fmd suitable situations by examining the
issues and questions currently asked of or by scholars in their fields."

where the problems are asked- "Usually, tests of Complex Problems Solving are found
in essay questions, paper assignments, or other types of projects, and
it's difficult to ensure reliable and fair grading on such forms of
evaluation"
"there's no getting around the
fact that judgement plays a prominent role in evaluating Complex
Solving abilities"

-The end of the logical understanding. i examined what memorisation, formation, application, and complex problems means. Now that i have basically understood the structure of one of the introductions of logical understanding,
by taking away few points, i can finally examine the possibilities of solving or formulating questions with formats, which will be examined below with new papers.



